# Article 1 - The Legislature

## Section 1

All of the legislative powers granted by this Constitution will be vested in a Congress of the United States, which will consist of a Senate, a House of Representatives, and an Assembly of Citizens.

## Section 2 -- the House of Representatives

The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every third year by the total population of the United States of America.

No person shall be a representative who has not met the following conditions:

* They shall have attained the age of 25
* They have been a citizen of the United States for at least seven years.
* They make their primary residence in the state they represent.

To determine the population of the states and the total population of the nation, a census should be conducted every ten years, using the most accurate methods of calculating the population, whether that is a direct count, sampling, or other method.  

The House of Representatives will have at least one member for each 750,000 citizens in the United States, made of "State Representatives" and "National Representatives"

Each state and the District of Columbia is entitled to at least one state representative plus one state representative for each one million citizens (rounded down) it contains. Each state legislature may create either:

* one district for each representative, elected via instant runoff voting.  Districts shall contain the same population in each district.

or

* multi-member districts to elect between three and seven representatives at one time, using the single transferable vote method. Districts should contain the same ratio of population to representatives.

These districts shall be determined by the state legislatures in accordance with federal law. If a state fails to pass a district map acceptable to the federal district court, in a reasonable time frame before an election, the federal district court is empowered to appoint a non-partisan, disinterested commission to create a map for the state.  

The remainder of the seats shall be apportioned proportionally by a national vote of all U.S. citizens for the political party they wish to lead the legislature.

A political party must meet the following qualifications to be listed on the ballot for the party vote:

* The party must create a ranked list of candidates and hold a fundamentally democratic primary process to determine the rank of each candidate. Each citizen can only vote in one political party's primary.

* The party must have received at least 50,000 voters in their party primary.

For each party that either gains at least 4% of the popular vote or has at least one other state representative, national representatives will be elected from the party lists in the order they are listed (save any candidates already elected as a state representative,) so that the total number of representatives, including both state and national representatives, is proportionate to the proportion of votes each party received in the party vote.

When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State, the Executive authority of each state shall issue a writ of election to fill the vacancy.

The House of Representatives shall choose their Speaker and other officers,

The House of Representatives shall have the sole power of Impeachment.

## Section 3 - The Senate
The Senate of the United States shall be composed of three Senators from each
State, elected by the people of each state, for six Years; and each Senator shall
have one Vote.

Elections for the senate shall be held every three years, with half the states holding their election at any time, alternating by date in which they joined the Union. (So that the second, fourth, sixth, etc. states to join the union have their elections three years after the senatorial elections for the first, third, fifth, etc. states.)

When vacancies happen in the representation of any state in the Senate, the executive authority of such state shall issue writs of election to fill such vacancies, provided that the legislature of any State may empower the executive thereof to make temporary appointments until the people fill the vacancies by election as the legislature may direct.

No person shall be a senator who has not met the following conditions:

* They shall have attained the age of 30
* They have been a citizen of the United States for at least nine years.
* They make their primary residence in the state they represent, and have done so for a period no shorter than three years prior.

The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the Senate, but
shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.

The Senate shall choose their other Officers, and also a President pro tempore,
in the absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercise the Office of
President of the United States.

The Senate shall have the sole power to try all Impeachments. When sitting for
that Purpose, they shall be on Oath or Affirmation. When the President of the
United States is tried, the Chief Justice shall preside: And no Person shall be
convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members present.

Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from
Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of honor, Trust or
Profit under the United States: but the Party convicted shall nevertheless be
liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and Punishment, according to
Law.

## Section 4 - Assembly of Citizens.

All citizens who have attained the age of eighteen are eligible to join the Assembly of Citizens.

Upon the joint request of at least one senator and one representative, legislation that has passed the House and Senate to be signed into law can be
brought before the Assembly of Citizens.

One thousand citizens from the Assembly will then be chosen at random to form a jury to review the bill. This jury will be contacted via both electronic mail, postal mail, and a telephone call, and then have seven days to reply via a secure electronic form or via postal mail, for which postage will have been paid. Those who assent to the bill becoming law need not reply, but if six hundred of the random jury reply within seven days that the law should be vetoed, the law is considered vetoed, even if the President has already signed the bill into law. 


## Section 4 - Assembly.
The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for Senators and
Representatives, shall be as followed:

* Primary elections are to be held on July 4th, with early voting available for two weeks prior.

* General elections are to be held on the first Sunday following the first Monday in November, with early voting available for three weeks prior.  

The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year, and such Meeting shall
be on the first Monday in December, unless they shall by Law appoint a
different Day.

Section 5
Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of
its own Members, and a Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do
Business; but a smaller number may adjourn from day to day, and may be
authorized to compel the Attendance of absent Members, in such Manner, and
under such Penalties as each House may provide.

Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings, punish its Members for
disorderly Behavior, and, with the Concurrence of two-thirds, expel a Member.

Each House shall keep a Journal of its Proceedings, and from time to time
publish the same, excepting such Parts as may in their Judgment require
Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the Members of either House on any question
shall, at the Desire of one fifth of those Present, be entered on the Journal.

Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the Consent of
the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other Place than that
in which the two Houses shall be sitting.

Section 6
The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their
Services, to be ascertained by Law, and paid out of the Treasury of the United
States. They shall in all Cases, except Treason, Felony and Breach of the
Peace, be privileged from Arrest during their Attendance at the Session of
their respective Houses, and in going to and returning from the same; and for
any Speech or Debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other
Place.

No Senator or Representative shall, during the Time for which he was elected,
be appointed to any civil Office under the Authority of the United States which
shall have been created, or the Emoluments whereof shall have been increased
during such time; and no Person holding any Office under the United States,
shall be a Member of either House during his Continuance in Office.


Section 7
All bills for raising Revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives;
but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendments as on other Bills.

Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate,
shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of the United
States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his
Objections to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the
Objections at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after
such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it
shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it
shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it
shall become a Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be
determined by Yeas and Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for and
against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House respectively. If
any Bill shall not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays
excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the Same shall be a Law,
in like Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their Adjournment
prevent its Return, in which Case it shall not be a Law.

Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to which the Concurrence of the Senate and
House of Representatives may be necessary (except on a question of Adjournment)
shall be presented to the President of the United States; and before the Same
shall take Effect, shall be approved by him, or being disapproved by him, shall
be repassed by two thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives, according
to the Rules and Limitations prescribed in the Case of a Bill.


Section 8
The Congress shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and
Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general
Welfare of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be
uniform throughout the United States;

To borrow money on the credit of the United States;

To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;

To establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization, and uniform Laws on the subject
of Bankruptcies throughout the United States;

To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix the
Standard of Weights and Measures;

To provide for the Punishment of counterfeiting the Securities and current Coin
of the United States;

To establish Post Offices and Post Roads;

To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited
Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings
and Discoveries;

To constitute Tribunals inferior to the supreme Court;

To define and punish Piracies and Felonies committed on the high Seas, and
Offenses against the Law of Nations;

To declare War, grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules concerning
Captures on Land and Water;

To raise and support Armies, but no Appropriation of Money to that Use shall be
for a longer Term than two Years;

To provide and maintain a Navy;

To make Rules for the Government and Regulation of the land and naval Forces;

To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union,
suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions;

To provide for organizing, arming, and disciplining, the Militia, and for
governing such Part of them as may be employed in the Service of the United
States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers,
and the Authority of training the Militia according to the discipline
prescribed by Congress;

To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over such District
(not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession of particular States, and
the acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United
States, and to exercise like Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent
of the Legislature of the State in which the Same shall be, for the Erection of
Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards, and other needful Buildings; And

To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into
Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.

Section 9
The Migration or Importation of such Persons as any of the States now existing
shall think proper to admit, shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to
the Year one thousand eight hundred and eight, but a tax or duty may be imposed
on such Importation, not exceeding ten dollars for each Person.

The privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended, unless when
in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.

No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed.

No capitation, or other direct, Tax shall be laid, unless in Proportion to the
Census or Enumeration herein before directed to be taken.

No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State.

No Preference shall be given by any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue to the
Ports of one State over those of another: nor shall Vessels bound to, or from,
one State, be obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in another.

No Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations
made by Law; and a regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and
Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from time to time.

No Title of Nobility shall be granted by the United States: And no Person
holding any Office of Profit or Trust under them, shall, without the Consent of
the Congress, accept of any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind
whatever, from any King, Prince or foreign State.

Section 10
No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters
of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make any Thing but
gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any Bill of Attainder,
ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any
Title of Nobility.

No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts or Duties
on Imports or Exports, except what may be absolutely necessary for executing
its inspection Laws: and the net Produce of all Duties and Imposts, laid by
any State on Imports or Exports, shall be for the Use of the Treasury of the
United States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the Revision and Control
of the Congress.

No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any duty of Tonnage, keep
Troops, or Ships of War in time of Peace, enter into any Agreement or Compact
with another State, or with a foreign Power, or engage in War, unless actually
invaded, or in such imminent Danger as will not admit of delay.
